---
layout: default
title: "Rultor Commands"
date: 2014-07-14
description:
  Here is a full list of Rultor commands
---

All commands you give to Rultor should start
with `@rultor` and be followed by a text, which includes a mnemo of a command.
For example, in order to check the status of Rultor in current
conversation (ticket), you can post a comment:

{% highlight text %}
@rultor what is the current status?
{% endhighlight %}

The mnemo of the command here is `status`. All the rest is ignored.
You can achieve exactly the same by just posting:

{% highlight text %}
@rultor status
{% endhighlight %}

Here is a full list of all commands, in alphabetic order.

BTW, all commands are configured through
[.rultor.yml]({% post_url 2014/jul/2014-07-13-reference %}).

## Config

This command will show you how Rultor understands your `.rultor.yml`
file. Rultor translates YAML into XML, for the sake of simplicity
and strictness.

## Deploy

Deploying packaged product to production (or test) environment, in order
to make it available for end-users (or testers).
More details are [here]({% post_url 2014/jul/2014-07-13-basics %}).

## Hello

Sort of a "ping". Post `@rultor hello` and expect an immediate answer
from Rultor (well, within 60 seconds). If you don't get an answer, there
is something wrong with Rultor. Feel free to post a bug to our
[issue tracker](https://github.com/yegor256/rultor/issues).

## Lock and Unlock

You can "lock" any branch to prevent merges there. Sometimes this may
be a very valuable feature, when, say, you want to make sure that
for a short period of time only you will merge something into some
branch, to stabilize it. When it's stable, you release a new version
and unlock the branch. To lock it, say `@rultor lock`. That's it.

By default, branch `master` will be locked. In order to lock a branch,
Rultor creates a simple text file `.rultor.lock` in the branch. The file
contains a list of Github user names, who are allowed to merge into
the branch.

If you want to change the list of users or lock some other branch,
post ``@rultor lock branch=`master`, users=`jeff,yegor256` ``.

To unlock, post ``@rultor unlock branch=`master` ``. Again, the default
branch is `master`.

## Merge

Merges pull request, checking its validity beforehand.
More details are [here]({% post_url 2014/jul/2014-07-13-basics %}).

These blog posts explain why
[master branch has to be read-only](http://www.yegor256.com/2014/07/21/read-only-master-branch.html)
and why Rultor should be used to automate
[pull requests merging](http://www.yegor256.com/2014/07/24/rultor-automated-merging.html).

## Release

Releases a stable version of the product to artifact repository,
like Maven Central of RubyGems.
More details are [here]({% post_url 2014/jul/2014-07-13-basics %}).

## Status

Checks the status of currently running command in current conversation.
When a command takes long this command may be convenient to use. Just
post `@rultor status` and see what Rultor says.

## Stop

Rultor will try to immediately stop/kill current command. Just post
`@rultor stop`.

## Version

This command shows up current version of Rultor engine.
