---
layout: default
title: "Terms of Service"
date: 2014-07-13
description:
  Rultor Terms Of Service
---

Effective as of July 13, 2014

Your use of the Rultor Services is governed by this agreement (the "Terms").

"TechoPark Corp." means TechnoPark Corporation, located at 568 Ninth Street
South, 202, Naples, FL 34102, United States, and its subsidiaries or affiliates
involved in providing the Rultor Services.

The "Rultor Services" means the services TechnoPark Corp. makes available to you
through this website, including the rultor.com website, the API, and any other
software or services offered by TechnoPark Corp. under the Rultor name.

Likewise, your use of the Rultor website and the Rultor open-source project
("Rultor") is also governed by the Terms as described in more detail below.

In order to use the Rultor Services, you must first agree to the Terms.

You actually agree to the Terms by using the Rultor Services.

You understand and agree that TechnoPark Corp. will treat your use of the Rultor
Services or use of the rultor.com website as acceptance of the Terms from the
time you begin using the Rultor Services.

You may not use Rultor or Rultor Services if you are a person barred from
receiving Rultor Services under the laws of the United States or other
countries, including the country in which you are a resident or from which you
access or use Rultor or Rultor Services, or international laws or treaties.

You agree that your use or purchase of Rultor Services and/or Rultor is not
contingent in any way or manner on the delivery of any future functionality or
features or dependent on any oral or written public comments made by TechnoPark
Corp. or any of its affiliates regarding future functionality or features.

Your use of the Rultor Services must comply with all applicable laws,
regulations and ordinances, including any laws regarding the export of data or
software.

You acknowledge and agree that TechnoPark Corp. (or TechnoPark Corp.'s
licensors) own all legal right, title and interest in and to the Rultor Services
and Rultor, including any intellectual property rights which relate to or
subsists in the Rultor Services or Rultor (whether those rights happen to be
registered or not, and wherever in the world those rights may exist).

NOTHING IN THESE TERMS SHALL EXCLUDE OR LIMIT RULTOR INC.'S WARRANTY OR
LIABILITY FOR LOSSES WHICH MAY NOT BE LAWFULLY EXCLUDED OR LIMITED BY APPLICABLE
LAW. YOU EXPRESSLY UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT YOUR USE OF THE RULTOR SERVICES
AND/OR RULTOR IS **AT YOUR SOLE RISK** AND THAT THE RULTOR SERVICES AND RULTOR
ARE PROVIDED **"AS IS"** AND **"AS AVAILABLE."**

The Rultor Services may include hyperlinks to other web sites, content,
resources or email content.  TechnoPark Corp. may have no control over any web
sites or resources which are provided by companies or persons other than
TechnoPark Corp.

TechnoPark Corp. may make changes to the Terms from time to time. When such
changes are made, TechnoPark Corp. will make the updated Terms available on its
website. You understand and agree that if you use the Rultor Services or Rultor
after the date on which the Terms have changed, TechnoPark Corp. will treat your
use as acceptance of the updated Terms.

The Terms constitute the whole legal agreement between you and TechnoPark Corp.
and govern your use of the Rultor Services (but excluding any services which
TechnoPark Corp. may provide to you under a separate written agreement) and,
subject to the terms and conditions of the GitHub website, Rultor, and
completely replace any prior agreements between you and TechnoPark Corp. in
relation to the Rultor Services or Rultor.
